# Acuparse Telemetry Collection Guide

When checking for updates, Acuparse will send a data packet containing some basic details about your system and install.
This data is necessary for planning future releases and understanding the overall install base.

**Note: Disabling update checks and Telemetry signals to the project that keeping the software upto date is not of
importance to you, and that you're not concerned with bug fixes or new features. Disabling update checking and telemetry
causes the overall user count to drop, and fewer deployments' logged translates to a much lower development priority and
in turn, less development time spent working on Acuparse. If this project is important to you, please consider leaving
update checking enabled. As this software is free and open-source, this is the only metric available to gauge user
interaction and project uptake.**

## How It Works

Acuparse generates a unique client ID during install which is sent along with this data. Client ID and Access/Hub MAC
address used for data validation.

To view the data stored for your install, visit the admin settings page, then click on the Telemetry Data button (under
Update Checking).

The current query used when checking for updates is:

- `client=<install_id>&version=<version>&mac=<device_mac>&chassis=<chassis>&virt=<virtualization>&kernel=<kernel>&os=<operating_system>&arch=<architecture>`

The [source code](https://gitlab.com/acuparse/rms) for the server is MIT licensed and publicly available.

The current installation count is available on the [Acuparse Website](https://www.acuparse.com/#donations).

### Generating Telemetry

On most installs, telemetry data is generated by executing:

```bash
hostnamectl
```

#### Container

Docker Container installs do not have `hostnamectl` available. You may see an error in your logs that this command
failed. This error can be safely ignored. Acuparse manually builds update data for Container installs.
